Source: [Alpenglow](http://www.alpenglow.org/ski-history/notes/orig/little-walt-obit.txt)

From: lowell.skoog@alpenglow.org (Lowell Skoog)
Newsgroups: rec.skiing.backcountry
Subject: Remembering Walt Little, Northwest Skier and Mountaineer
Date: 6 Mar 2002 07:34:14 -0800
Message-ID: <dfe47423.0203060734.8629ad6@posting.google.com>

[edited, minor corrections]

Walter Burges Little: April 29, 1909 - February 28, 2002 

Walt Little's passion for skiing spanned three-quarters of a
century. He took up the sport in 1927, when Paradise on Mount
Rainier was a six mile trek on skis from Longmire, rope tows
hadn't yet been invented, and a "shaped" ski was one with a
wicked warp. Walt kept skiing through the last year of his life.
He died recently in Seattle, at age 92, following his annual ski
vacation to Sun Valley with friends. Walt didn't just witness
the changes in Northwest skiing. He helped bring them about.

Walt joined the Mountaineers in the 1930s and began a lifelong
involvement with the club's Meany ski hut, near Stampede Pass.
With its steep rope tow and open slopes, Meany was considered one
of the best ski hills in Washington state in those days. In
1941, Walt organized the last running of the classic Patrol Race
from Snoqualmie Pass to Meany. Over the years, Walt concocted
many of the names around Meany hill, such as "Psychopath" and
"Lower Slobbovia." In 1939 Walt chaired the committee that
planned the Mountaineers' Stevens Pass hut. When the hut was
dedicated in 1949, the Mountaineer Annual described Walt as the
guiding spirit in its construction.

In 1941, Walt was the architect of the club's first ski
mountaineering course. This may have been the first such course
in North America. It was almost certainly the first to teach
glacier skiing. Walt wrote much of the course handbook and
published an authoritative article, "Mountaineering on Skis" in
the 1941 Mountaineer Annual. Walt's article reviewed the history
of Northwest ski mountaineering and explained the rationale for
the new course.

The course included overnight camping on snow, roped skiing
practice, and extended tours that employed these techniques.
Walt's training methods were innovative. During the glacier
skiing field trip, a roped skier would launch off a cornice in
Edith Creek basin and his or her rope team would have to arrest
the fall and carry out a rescue. About 100 people registered for
the course during the first year. In spite of World War II,
which began midway through the course, 31 people took the final
exam and eight graduated. Walt was one of them.

Walt was an explorer as well as a teacher. During the war, on
weekend leave from the Army, Walt and George Dennis made the
earliest recorded ski trip into the Enchantment Lakes basin. His
1943 Mountaineer Annual article, "Snow and Skis in the Stuart
Range," included the first published photo of Prusik Peak, which
drew post-war rock climbers to the area. In 1947, with Charles
Cehrs and other Mountaineers, Walt made the first recorded ski
ascent of Whitehorse Mountain.

Following the war, Walt applied his energies to the growing sport
of downhill skiing. In the 1950s, he was one of a small group of
skiers who studied the feasibility of a ski resort at Crystal
Mountain. Walt made over a dozen snow survey trips on skis into
Silver Creek basin during those years. Using his skills as a
civil engineer, Walt led development of the chairlifts that
opened at Crystal Mountain in autumn 1962. Walt's reputation
spread and he was invited by Wenatchee skiers to consult on the
proposed Mission Ridge ski area in the early 1960s.

Walt said that after all those survey trips to Crystal Mountain,
he'd had enough of heavy packs and climbing for ski runs. He
stuck to lift skiing after that, and kept at it for the rest of
his life. A lifelong bachelor, he described himself as "sort of
a maniac skier." Bob Cram once said, "Walt was a pioneer in ski
technique. Anything that was crazy Walt had already tried."

Walt's passion for downhill skiing was rooted in his beginnings
as a ski mountaineer. In his 1941 article in the Mountaineer
Annual, his enthusiasm shines through to this day. After
describing what a ski mountaineer needs to know for an ascent of
one of the Cascade volcanos, Walt concludes: "A neophyte might
well question, 'Why take all this trouble?' To one who has once
felt the thrill of the long high ski trails in the bright spring
weather, with perfect snow underfoot, there is no need of
rationalizing an answer. You just like it."

--Lowell Skoog
 Seattle

